---

title: "2020 sum-up"
author: [molnarm84, huszerlbence]
image: "../img/posts/2020-sumup.png"
tags: [website, headless cms, SNaaS, SaaS]
redirect_to: https://www.sensenet.com/blog/2020-12-08-2020-sum-up

---

2020 was a looooong and productive year for us. A lot of things happened with one common goal: launch sensenet as a service (or SNaaS for short).

---

This year was dedicated for the preparation of SNaaS launch which has generated various tasks in different fields like marketing, sales and development. Fortunately we were mostly able to stick to our plans defined at the beggining of the year.
Below, you can see our timeline for 2020 with the most important milestones and happenings.

# Q1 The plan
At the first quarter we started to define tasks and goals for the whole year. By the end of Q1 only one thing was sure: we wanted to launch SNaaS in BETA along with Hacktoberfest. This meant we had to have our new website up and running with fresh new content to promote the new service.
We hired a professional marketing agency to help us with the content creation. In addition to the website revamp, we entrusted them to get new users for SNaaS. This part will happen in 2021, once we end BETA phase and launch the service.

# Q2 Struggle
This quarter was quite busy since we needed to work on many different areas at the same time.

To understand the processes and the tasks we should work on, lot of customer journeys have been drawn.
We defined that we require (to mention a few):
- profile page where users manage their account and subscriptions
- surface to manage under the hood processes in-house (e.g: repository creation, account management, invoicing)
- email templates

Of course every step led to new questions and additional tasks.🥳

In the meantime our awesome Dev Op worked really hard under the hood to figure out how to run sensenet in a container (ANIKÓ PLS CLARIFY THIS SECTION) and planned the whole infrastructure along with the System Engineers.

Concerning the new website we discussed a lot with the marketing agency to help them understand sensenet and the target audience of the new service. During this period we lived mostly in Microsoft Wor(l)d polishing our communication.

# Q3 Ready?
We needed a website design so we created one. Of course it came with a lof of modifications hundreds of versions and some user tests.

By the middle of september the new website gone live but we weren't nearly ready for Hacktoberfest.
We also needed some (at least 60) new Hacktoberfest tagged tasks, a dedicated website and in-house testing of every step of the new service (from registration to content management)

# Q4
BETA:
testing internal processes
automatization



26 millionth time: SNaaS launch

technical and marketing prerequisites

marketing: found a marketing agency (new website,linkedin campaign)
spring-autumn: website design, development

Hacktoberfest (BETA launch)

BETA:
testing internal processes
automatization

tech prerequisites:
containerization
infrastructure
profile page (ux + development)
admin ui (ux+ development)

2021 plans
penetration test
live infrastructure
marketing campaign to get new customers





