---

title: "2021 kick-off"
author: [molnarm84, huszerlbence]
image: "../img/posts/2021-kickoff.jpg"
tags: [OKR, SNaaS, saas, infra, planning, q1]
redirect_to: https://www.sensenet.com/blog/2021-01-27-2021-kick-off

---

??????????????????????????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!######################>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

---

At the end of 2020 we sat down to clarify our goals for the next year (both company and team level) and defined the way to reach them. We came up with the idea to use OKR for that so we started to familiarize with the methodology and define objectives and key results for Q1.

# OKR in a nutshell??????????>#>#>&>&>#@>#{@@{{>&@{

"Objectives and Key Results (OKR) is a critical thinking framework and goal setting methodology that helps companies to align goals and ensure everyone is working collaboratively on goals that really matter." (source: weekdone.com)

We found that weekdone offers everything we need at the moment to start our journey. Since every department has a role in reaching the goals, we applied the methodology to the whole company including every team.

# Journey so far

We organized a kick-off meeting to define high-level goals then every team specified lower level objectives and key results. Fortunately righ after defining these objectives, we started to implement new processes in our day to day work, so for january 2021 we had some practice in this new framework and we got used to monitor the results every week.

# Plans for Q1

We've set some goals based on the results of last year that we should reach by the end of Q1. These goals include increasing website traffic (more visitors, lower bounce rate) and getting more followers and engagement on social channels. All of these help us promote our new product (SNaaS) and bring new users. We have defined the target number of new repositories by the end of Q1 and the required steps to reach this.

With the help of a marketing agency, we've come out with a content strategy for the whole campaign which we will follow to reach our goals in the first quarter of 2021. This includes regular posts to different social media channels, blog posts, paid ads, newsletter and so on. We will of course monitor the results throughout the whole quarter and make adjustments if needed.

## Product

Along with sales and marketing strategy, we will keep improving the product itself and optimize our internal processes.
We will look for possible automation points like repo registration and email notifications. Right now, the whole process is manual which is sustainable for now but shortly we will have more and more registrations and repo requests which cannot and shouldn't be handled manually.

We constatly look for opportunities to make user experience better so we plan to introduce more payment methods for business and enterprise plan (don't worry, developer plan[https://www.sensenet.com/pricing] stays free).

Product documentation improved a lot during the last year, but this is something that you have to constantly keep an eye on to make onboarding and development easier. We need to keep existing docs up to date and discover missing parts then write them.

To be able to see what's happening with the repos and the whole service, we are implementing in-house monitoring tools. With that, we can keep an eye on the usage of the service and infrastructure (so we can expand if needed) and also filter inactive repositories so we can contact repo owners and help them with the first steps.





