---

title: "Product goals for 2018 Q2"
author: [?]
image: "../img/posts/travel.jpeg"
tags: [goals, community, roadmap, statistics]

---



---

### SN6 to SN7 - Patch is coming

As we no longer develop updates for older versions of sensenet, it is crucial to upgrade every project to the latest version. We are working on a patch which can upgrade existing projects from version 6 to the latest release. Once upgraded to SN7 you can easily install future patches for this version and keep your solution up to date.

We plan to publish this upgrade patch in Q2 this year.

### Cloud compatibility
The next milestone in the lifetime of SN7 is cloud compatibility which involves lot of additional researches and developments. 

Read below some challenges we will be working on in Q2:

#### Azure SQL & AD
You can already use Azure SQL to host sensenet’s database but the installer does not support Azure Active Directory authentication yet so you’ll need to use SQL authentication during the install process.

#### Messaging and cache
We will start working on refactoring messaging and caching in sensenet by examining the industry standard and implementation opportunities. During the first phase we’ll create a study from the current state and opportunities, then we can move on by forming needs and actions for future improvements to modernize messaging and caching. As cloud compatibility is already in the corner, sensenet messaging in cloud environment is also a hot topic in our product team.

#### Disk usage
Like messaging and caching, disk usage is a bit different in a cloud environment than on premise that's why we will research how Azure operations affect our disk usage and see if any further modifications are needed in the product.


### sensenet UX revamp

After so many under the hood changes like the componentization, as one of the biggest upgrade in SN7, the user interface will get an overhaul as well. 
We want to create a UI which is future proof and amazig to use, so we started working with a UX researcher who are contacting our partners to collect as much feedback as he can.

We want to understand how people really use sensenet and make it more simple and easy to understand, so you’ll find every button, controls and other elements at the right place, you won’t need to serch for them.

After this initial research phase, the design process will start with numerous wireframes and plans for the revamped user interface.

The core concept of this revamp is to introduce a new simplified user interface with only the required features and separate it from the content explorer.
Users will be able to edit permissions, view and manage document but they wont have access to the content explorer (which will be also rewritten) and to the more advanced options.

Stay tuned because we’ll share more info about the new sensenet UX in the coming months.


### DMS v2.0
In Q2 we will publish the 2.0 version of our document management system which is started back in 2017 as a DMS MVP project. Now we want to go further by implementing the following features into the 2.0 version:
- Copy and Move action
- Improved path picker
- Real time document editing

Check out the current state of the DMS right [here](https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-dms-demo).

### Dynamic Content Type editing

One of the best feature of sensenet is the ability to create new content types.
Now you need to edit XML files, but this will change in the near future.

We are working on a simplified content type interface so defining a new content type, editing (e.g: adding more fields) will be much easier and can be done without coding.

### Standalone DocViewer

SN 7 features a powerful [Preview Component](https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-preview) which can be used in any project. The DocViewer is responsible for displaying preview images of documents, however it's the role of the preview generator to create these "images" for the DocViewer. Currently we are using Apose's solution for this task.
Our goal is to separate these parts and publish a standalone DocViewer which can be used with any preview generator in any project. This standalone DocViewer will be written entirely in JS and it won't have any ASP.NET dependencies.

### Online document editing

Many of our partners requested online document editing in addition to the current WebDAV solution so we will integrate Office Web Apps Server to sensenet. According to our roadmap we plan to publish this solution as part of the product in Q2 this year.

### More training materials and tutorials
As we promised we are working constantly on training materials. 
In Q1 we published our first video tutorial of the SN7 era and we constantly migrating articles from our wiki site to the new community site. In most cases some modification is needed, so we review and update all articles before posting them to community site. Check all updated and new docs on our community site. (https://community.sensenet.com/docs/)

