---

title: "Product goals for 2018 Q1"
author: [?]
image: "../img/posts/travel.jpeg"
tags: [goals, community, roadmap, statistics]

---

Few weeks ago we published a short overview of Q4 last year's achievements and milestones like the sensenet 7 stable release and improvements in some actions. Of course we continue improving the product but another important project is to build a stronger, larger, more active community and to provide useful materials for newcomers in the form of code samples, tutorials and videos.
We appreciate every feedback and we strongly recommend to report issues concerning the product or its components and send pull request in case you have any suggestion to improve sensenet 7. 
Our goal is to build the best development platform for our communnity, and for this, we need your help.

---

### Growing community
For growing the community we need some experienced and talented developers already working with sensenet. Fortunately we have many people like this in-house. We started a project where every developers need to achieve some milestones by answering questions on Stack Overflow and sending pull requests like bug fixes or product improvements on GitHub.

For tracking the results and to check other's statuses achieving these goals we created an in-house website.
Here our developers can see every sensenet related open questions from Stack Overflow and non-resolved issues reported on GitHub.
GitHub and Stack Overflow accounts are connected to this site, so everyone have up to date info about their progress achieving these goals.

In the beginning of this new project we are collecting feedback from our developers and improving the system if required. The goal is to have a helpful and active community with strong in-house contributors who are the most experienced sensenet developers on earth.


- in-house Community (Reward) System
    - ask and answer on stackoverflow and gain predefined amount of reputation quarterly
        - help snteam to answer questions on stackoverflow
        - make an active community around the sensenet tag
        - move in-house questions product related questions to stackoverflow will help also the outside community
    - making predefined amount of sensenet related or non-related pull requests quarterly
        - pr's labeled with ```help wanted``` to mark good first questions
        - help our developers outside the product team to follow the guidelines that are common in the opensource world
        - help other opensource projects
    - in-house website to follow status of 'competition'
    - in-house training materials and workshops

### DMS MVP

The DMS MVP already introduced in our recent [post](https://community.sensenet.com/blog/2018/01/24/q4-results#dms-mvp) have a bright future as we will publish the package as a working solution as soon as possible so you'll be able to test and improve it by providing feedback or sending pull requests. We appreciate every feedback and suggestions.


- publish
- test
- measure

### Control packages

As sensenet 7 could be a robust content repository for every one page app (like DMS MVP above), we created two collections of UI components and controls for sensenet written in our favourite JS frameworks, namely ReactJS and Aurelia.
In Q1 2018 we plan to publish a 1.0 version of these packages and provide some documentation as well so it will be easier for you to start working with SN7 using one of these frameworks.


### Refactor search module



- Make a generalized layer for information retrieval operations (indexing and querying). This will decouple search operations from the underlying technology.
- Lucene Search service: create a standalone, separately deployable service based on the current Lucene indexing implementation. This is important in a cloud environment, where you cannot have a local index on the web server.

### Messaging and caching
- In the cloud the current MSMQ messaging implementation is not feasible. We want to come up with a more modern server-to-server communication architecture that will help operators use sensenet in an auto-scalable cloud environment.

### Training materials

As SN7 introduced a new era, our developers who are working with sensenet day by day, also need to learn some new skills to take advantage all the features of the product.
These in-house trainings involve the following skills

-  First for in-house developers
    - TypeScript, ES6+
    - ReactJS, Redux, Aureliajs
    - sn-client-js, sn-redux, sn-controls-x other sn related frontend packages
    - tools: testing, CI, documentation, linters

### Tutorials
- Install video
- First steps with
    - MVC + sensenet
    - reactjs + sensenet
    - aureliajs + sensenet

### Scoped packages
 - Split our NPM packages into smaller ones and move them in the **@sensenet** [scope](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scope) on NPM
 - Strict review on our 3rd party dependencies
 - Optimizations on our package bundle sizes
 - Allow client functions to work with [immutable objects](https://redux.js.org/docs/faq/ImmutableData.html)
 - Massive code decoupling and refactor
 - [related issue](https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-client-js/issues/67)

### New components
- preview generator
- document viewer
- adsync
- Azure Blob Provider
